Planning: Intro & Editors (#5)
apisyouwonthate/book-build-apis-2: 2-planning/0-introduction.adoc

= Introduction

When I was younger and dumber, the planning stage for APIs was pretty much
"think of a list of endpoints then start coding". This is wildly insufficient.
As the <<theory-contracts,API Contracts>> chapter explained, contracts are
incredibly important throughout the life-cycle of an API. We are going to look
into how they can be used in the planning and design stage.

Most of the planning and design phase is intended to do two things:

1. Make developers think really hard about the requirements for their API 2.

> Gather feedback from clients application developers 3. Use the feedback to

Reviewer: `2.` and `3.` should be on separate lines…

Author: Ha thats my auto-wrap extension eatingn lines, thank you.

> Gather feedback from clients application developers 3. Use the feedback to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gather feedback from client application developers 3. Use the feedback to
```

improve the planning before the development phase begins

== Time is Money

Poorly planned APIs waste a lot of time. Developers cost money, so paying extra

> money for developers to rewriting a bunch of code they wrote just recently due

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for developers to rewrite a bunch of code they wrote just recently due
```

to some oversight is a cost most companies would like to avoid. I've seen APIs
go from v1 to v2 in the first few months, because the developers handed over a
finished product which might have been ok for one client, but caused some issues
for another client.

If that client had been involved earlier on then a solution could have been
found to satisfy the needs of both clients, and the v1 could have been used for
both. Now we've got two separate versions of the API being used at the same
time, with developers maintaining two code paths, and at some point the original
client using the original version of the API is going to have to rewrite their
code to use the newer version of the API. What a daft mess.

== Gather Feedback Early

If clients had more insight into the planning of the API, they have a much

> better chance of catching out issues earlier on. We can give them fake API

Reviewer 3: Who is "We"? Who writes the API contract, who creates the mock? Is the developer responsible to write the contract? Should a company have API specialists?

Author: @chchrist hey, I've added a commit which answers your question. Throughout the book im saying "we" as conversational, literally you and me.

Reviewer 3: ah, cool 👍
